# Audio and Virtual Reality

## The Power of Audio as a Design Medium

Audio within mediums of entertainment that include it demand that audio must be immersive. Audio Design leverages two different forms of inclusion that play major roles in the design and production process: Diegetic and Non-diegetic. Diegetic sounds are intended to be heard as if they are part of the narrative universe and non-diegetic sounds are for aesthetic purposes such as music or emotional tone-setting soundscapes. Audio design within any medium requires a fundamental understanding of these two use cases. Utilizing these narrative uses for different sounds and soundscapes, a designer can effectively immerse an individual in the form of entertainment they are partaking in. Visuals seek to grab attention from the viewer, while audio seeks to immerse the listener.

Sound, within the context of sensory perception, is always spherical in nature. Vision, on the other hand, is directionally rectangular. This may seem counter-intuitive to the fact that humans do have the ability to view things around them within a spherical representation, but this requires the person to move. A person intending to gather all visual information about a space they are in must actively seek out the information by moving themselves into a position that allows them to see it. Auditory perception is different in the fact that a person can stand completely still and perceive all the sonic information in a room. 

Movement plays an important role in audio and visual design perception. Visual designs require movement to be seen while audio designs require movement to change \(assuming none of the elements involved in the design move themselves\). This relationship between movement and auditory perception is the conceptual basis behind the Head Related Transform Function. The HRTF uses position-based audio sources to determine how a sound is perceived from a stereo \(two-ear anatomically and two-channel within the field of audio engineering\) perspective. Human audition has evolved to intuitively operate with this consideration included in the average person's listening experience. Direct-sound audition will always sound different if the position of the listener relative to the audio source has changed, vice versa. This is sensory experience is directly related to sound's physical properties as a wave. 

Sound, as it operates within physics, is a wave and operates as such. Sound movement within an environment is entirely dependent on the medium within which the wave travels. Sound as it moves through a gas, such as air, can have many factors that change its properties as it moves from source to listener. 

