# Abstract

Virtual Reality is a growing medium of immersive entertainment. Within growing immersion comes a need for immersive audio. The crux of VR entertainment is that it is more immersive and demands greater user involvement than a user looking at a screen and holding a controller. The key to immersion is to create a convincing representation. Visuals that do not meet realistic standards are often overlooked because the closer visuals get to reality, the more likely they are to be deep in the uncanny valley \(the relationship between a digital representation’s realistic appearance and the viewer’s understanding that it is not real\). Audio design and fidelity do not suffer from this though as auditory perception’s three-dimensional nature allows for the listener to be involved and present for not just what is presented to them, but every sound present in the scene.

While the ever-increasing fidelity of visual graphics and imagery captivates players and consumers, audio often remains the unsung hero of immersion. Visuals provide only a limited representation of content as the eyes are only able to see in one direction. People are presented with a field of view and are required to manipulate the transform of that field of view to gather all necessary visual information. Audio does not require such transform manipulation as it is always presented three-dimensionally. Audio is felt from every direction all the time and is similar to being immersed in water. A person may only be able to see in one direction but will always be able to feel and experience what is around them. This understanding of auditory perception is a critical feature in audio design for virtual reality environments.

